## Top-level Projects

*Approved by R Consortium TSC on 2017-10-18*

This document outlines a proposed process by which an ISC project might
graduate to top-level project, as well as the process by which such a
project may be terminated. A top-level project implies long-term support
(with 3 year review) by the R Consortium for the project, regardless of
the person running it.

### Context

We currently have three top-level projects:

  - R-hub, by Gabor Csardi.
  - RUGS program (incl. small conferences)
  - R-Ladies

Top-level projects imply long term support, and give the project a seat
on the ISC.

### Project Promotion

Generally, we will consider the following factors when deciding if a
project should become a top-level project:

1.  The project is important, and is having a significant impact on the
    R community.
2.  The project has completed one year of successful funding, and
    delivered their first annual report.
3.  Commitment (to some extent) independently of the personnel on
    initial project.

Project would be nominated by ISC member, and confirmed by a simple
majority vote. Then ISC chair would reach out to project and discuss
budget etc

### Budget

The project would prepare a rough 3 year plan, including discussion of
personnel (i.e. either a commitment from the original grantee or a
transition plan). Top level project would be allotted a line item on the
ISC budget to ensure priority funding. Upon graduating, any remaining
funding from initial grant will return to ISC.

### Reporting

The project would then be expected to have a status report at every
regular meeting of the ISC to be presented by their ISC representative.

In lieu of regular project proposals, top-level projects would submit a
proposed yearly budget by October 31 (in order to get budgeted for
following financial year). This would serve as a regular review point
for top-level projects, and would occur in a separate meeting to the
other project proposals, with the ISC member associated with the project
recusing themselves.

### Concluding support

Top-level projects will be reviewed every three years. An explicit
positive vote would be required to continue funding.

In exceptional circumstances, a top-level project may be terminated at
any time by a simple majority vote of the ISC.

A top-level project will typically not be terminated if the grantee
resigns, provided that succession plan is in place.
